README.md, before:

cy.io
=====

A Continuous Delivery (CD) tool for the 21st Century. Licensed under the [MIT License][0]

> free, open-source  
> Continuous Delivery tool  
> that's simple to use for hobbyists,  
> flexible enough for startups  
> and powerful enough for the enterprise

Read [Why a new CD tool][1] for the reason and focus points behind this CD tool. And [DSL Design][2] to give you an intro into the Domain Specific Languange (DSL) that is used to define the pipeline and configure the jobs.

> Making the Impossible Possible  
> the Possible Simple  
> the Simple automated Away  

Feedback
--------

I love to receive your feedback and your ideas, together we can create a CD tool that we and all stakeholders of the CD Pipeline love to use.

Find me on twitter as @pvdissel, you can also use this handle to contact me via google.com, linkedin.com and slideshare.net

Name
----

The name "cy.io" is still temporary, I haven't found a better name yet. See my [name ideas section][3] on my [braindump][4] page for ideas I came across. Please let me know your naming ideas with their reasoning.

eg. The reasoning behind "cy.io" is:

- "cy" is the Cylon in one of the [Battlestar Galactica episodes][5] which helped out the humans. A human helping robot
- "io" simply stands for input/output

[0]: LICENSE
[1]: docs/Why-a-new-CD-tool.md
[2]: docs/DSL-design.md
[3]: docs/braindump.md#name-ideas
[4]: docs/braindump.md
[5]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cy_%28Battlestar_Galactica%29

Commit message:

Added google groups discussion details

README.md, after:

cy.io
=====

A Continuous Delivery (CD) tool, which we and all stakeholders of the CD Pipeline love to use. Licensed under the [MIT License][0]

> free, open-source  
> Continuous Delivery tool  
> that's simple to use for hobbyists,  
> flexible enough for startups  
> and powerful enough for the enterprise

Read [Why a new CD tool][1] for the reason and focus points behind this CD tool. And [DSL Design][2] to give you an intro into the Domain Specific Languange (DSL) that is used to define the pipeline and configure the jobs.

> Making the Impossible Possible  
> the Possible Simple  
> the Simple automated Away  

Feedback
--------

I love to receive your feedback and your ideas, together we can create a CD tool that we and all stakeholders of the CD Pipeline love to use.

Find me on twitter as @pvdissel, you can also use this handle to contact me via google.com, linkedin.com and slideshare.net

I've started a Google discussion group, you can find it at [Google Groups][6]

![Google Groups][7]

Name
----

The name "cy.io" is still temporary, I haven't found a better name yet. See my [name ideas section][3] on my [braindump][4] page for ideas I came across. Please let me know your naming ideas with their reasoning by posting to the [discussion on this topic][8]

eg. The reasoning behind "cy.io" is:

- "cy" is the Cylon in one of the [Battlestar Galactica episodes][5] which helped out the humans. A human helping robot
- "io" simply stands for input/output

[0]: LICENSE
[1]: docs/Why-a-new-CD-tool.md
[2]: docs/DSL-design.md
[3]: docs/braindump.md#name-ideas
[4]: docs/braindump.md
[5]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cy_%28Battlestar_Galactica%29
[6]: https://groups.google.com/d/forum/cdtool
[7]: https://chart.googleapis.com/chart?chs=150x150&cht=qr&chl=https%3A%2F%2Fgroups.google.com%2Fd%2Fforum%2Fcdtool
[8]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/cdtool/GuN9rhZ881s
